---
layout: post
cover: 'assets/images/girl-reading-a-book.jpg'
title: Dichotomies Involved in Language Teaching Part 1
date:   2016-08-08
tags:  teaching delta linguistics
subclass: 'post tag-test tag-content'
categories: 'Monk1'
navigation: True
---
1. **Spoken Language and Written Language** - is written language superior? Is it just spoken language written down? We would argue not, as there are plenty of literary devices that sound downright odd when spoken. There are no extant grammars of spoken English. 
2. **Vocabulary and Grammar** - Grammar is tricky because it tends to refer to sentence structures, verb tenses, and all the nitpicky parts of language that aren't memorizing vocabulary lists. However, in linguistic terms "grammar" is the unconscious stucture of language that is not necessarily taught OR the written book of a language that contains known phonetics, phonology, morphology, and syntax. The book also wants to distinguish that there is plenty of vocabulary based in "bits" and not words - suprasegmental phrases, etc.
3. **Receptive and Productive Skills** - Writing and Speaking as active, and listening and reading as passive. However for ESL students, listening and reading are far from passive, and we should probably think about them as "productive and receptive" as opposed to "active and passive". It's been found that students' general language abilities develop most rapidly in the early stages if the approach is largely based on controlled listening.
   * The book also wants to make the distinction that we can't assume a totally linear style of learning and that proving "mastery" over a set of vocabulary or sentence structure does not mean the student will continue to produce 100% correct speech. "Once teachers realize this, and see their own purpose as primarily to aid the student's long term acquisition of the system of English, it is easier to value, and concerntrate on receptive work in the classroom." 
4. **Competence and Performance** - We can observe performance but we have no way of observing, or indeed knowing anything about, competence. This holds true in Native speakers too. When working with fellow TEFL classmates, I could see them produce grammatically correct English but not be able to discern the distinction between a possessive adjective and a possessive pronoun. This ties back into the idea of "model" speech, which is problematic in many ways. See **On Model Speech**. 
5. **Usage and Use** - Usage is the broader term - is a sentence salient? Is it possible to say in the English language? Does it follow all the rules, and is it cromulent? However, usage is devoid of context. Use is the metric by which we decide if a sentence has a function and a purpose. Included is the ida of **illocutionary force** - "the idea that we need to ask what the speaker's intention was in producing a particular sentence", is sort of the rebuttal to Chomsky's "colorless green ideas sleep furiously".
   * "Overemphasis on mastery of what we imagine to be the basic structures of the language has frequently resulted in language teaching greatly overemphasizing usage. Many sentences occured in textbooks, and were used in grammar practices which were well-formed English sentences, but which it was difficult to imagine anyone actually using". I have found this to be the case in the official curriculum set up by the governmernt in which I teach, which praises "What's the matter?" instead of "Are you okay?" ("Water can alleviate thirst" for no reason) or further stilted sentences that none of my American contemporaries use, let alone Asian ESL children.