---
layout: post
cover: 'assets/images/girl-reading-a-book.jpg'
title: Dichotomies Involved in Language Teaching Part 2
date:   2016-08-10
tags:  teaching delta linguistics
subclass: 'post tag-test tag-content'
categories: 'Monk1'
navigation: True
---
1. **Signification and Value** - Signification expresses the contextless meaning of a word, such as its dictionary definition. "This is my hand" is meaningful as a sentence but meaningless as an utterance - it takes a little bit of creative thinking to imagine this said in a normal conversation. But signification exists, sicne pictionary as a game works. We can have contextless meaning. Value is metaphorical meaning, omitted words that are understandable in the context of a conversation, or pronouns with agreed-upon meaning. Continues with the distinction of "correct" and "successful" language, or the further ideas of grammatical or communicative competence. See **On Model Speech**. 
2. **Cohesion and Coherence** - Cohesion is the grammatical linking of one part to another. It can be exemplified (but is not always so explicit) by repetitions of similar grammar or lexis across sentence boundaries, or in the case of conversation, across turn boundaries. Coherence is how a conversation remains structured without directe grammatical links, but rhetorical and situational ones instead. "Cohesion is about grammatical linking, coherence about pragmatic linking". 
3. **The Classroom and the Real World** - This whole section is a sort of survey of the different models/approaches of language teaching, a lot of which can be summed up in this category, or at the very least have been brought into focus as this category has become more important in the discourse. While it's awesome that we have the tools to study real speech increasingly and with greater volume, unanalyzed natural speech should be neither the target nor the model for classroom speech. In the past, the gulf between the classroom and the real world was too great. We don't want to combine the two, but real speech should be both acknowledged and given more significance in the classroom. Although the classroom is not the "real" world per se, it is a situated activity system in that while all participants are there and interacting, it is **a** real world. There's a risk in only being exposed to classroom speech, but there's an equal risk in only being exposed to "real" speech, as your vocabulary/semiotics would be extremely diminished.
   - "The Lexical Approach suggests that much greater emphasis needs to be placed on students' building a large vocabulary much m ore quickly than in any traditional syllabus." Some of those words will have to be devoid of context - i.e. using flash cards and realia to tie words to meaning, but not introducing them in a sentence every single time with a purpose. 
4. **Product and Process** - A product is any language which a student creates, and products are created as a result of processes. Process is a developing, dynamic concept, which contrasts with the static nature of product. Teachers are necessarily product-oriented, because we have to have some way of evaluating processes. Thus essays, tests, etc. It is important to remember the processes involved in creating these products, though.
5. **Accuracy and Fluency** - usually for describing two different kinds of exercise. Accuracy demands that a student get the language "right". Fluency exercises tend to be more open-ended, and ask for a demonstration that the student be able to use the language, not just recognize the correct usage. The Lexical Approach holds that fluency leads to accuracy, as opposed to the other way around. 
   * "Despite the obvious fact that accuracy is a late-acquired feature of all language learning, it remains regrettably true that many teachers emphasize accuracy too early, and at the expense of fluency."
6. **Learning and Acquisition** - Both used to describe how we learn languages. Acquision is the internalization of rules and formulae which are then used to communicate but for this purpose counts as "the spontaneous process of rule internalisation that results from natural language use, while 'learning' consists of the development of concsious knowledge through formal study". Sure. According to this theory, we are able to test learning but not acquisition. It's obvious that we do both of these things, but we should not think that they're entirely unconnected. 